---
layout: image_post
main: false
status: wip
category: rodsandricers
back: rodsandricers.html
title: 1932 Coupe.
quote: Life's all about lines.
image: /images/rodsandricers_graffiti.jpg
---

I first saw _American Graffit_i when I was in high school. `Where were you in '62? still echoes in my head`; the venerable words of the great Wolfman Jack.

The yellow-bodied, five-windowed coupe inspired many a hot rodder from my parents era, but somehow failed to touch the hearts of the now aged "ricer" turned "tuner" generation of mine. Hot-rodding was always thrifting, and farm-found parts from the Deuce's era were hard to come by. 

Aside from Japanese cars being plentiful and cheap - they are the rat rods of the the new millenium - cars had become a status symbol, and the younger generation seemed to think that just by having a car that looked like it was fast mattered. While my love affair with Milner's '32 started in high school, it wasn't until quite a few years later that my subconscious ideas about how to build a Deuce "the correct way" really blossomed, and then started to kick my conscious' ass into gear.  This moment of inspiration came during the opening sequence of the fourth Indiana Jones installment, where a beautiful matte-black roadster races through the desert, white walls a-gleaming.  It had me at 'hello'.  

It's been two years since I started heavily researching my options, and I came to the realization this project was easily going to be a five year build with its associated costs <b>[sigh]</b>.  Thank god Johnny Tsunami embedded 'Go big or go home' into my head as a kid.  

<h2>[inspriation]</h2>

<h2>[on building a hot rod]</h2>