A Double-wall stove pipe heat exchanger

Abstract<br/><br/>A double-wall stove pipe fluid heat exchanging apparatus, permitting an increased system efficiency regarding heat distribution without excess creosote build-up, by means of cylindrically-wound, hollow copper tubing placed in between the inner and outer walls. The apparatus of the present invention including two connections, one inlet at the bottom, and one outlet at the top.<br/><br/>Claims<br/><br/>Description<br/><br/>1. Field of the Invention. This invention relates specifically to a double-wall stove pipe section used as a fluid heat exchanger, in conjuction with wood, pellet, or coal burning stand-alone stoves. 2. Discussion of the Prior Art. Currently, there is no approved, legal process for heating water with a conventional, stand-alone stove. Cast iron elements are available for placement inside stove combustion chambers, but these require illegal modification to the stove; likewise reducing the burn efficiency and flow.<br/><br/>Double-wall stove pipe provides a safe and non-prohibitive outlet for a fluid heat exchanger. Double-wall stove pipe was originally intended to decrease the physical space requirements between combustible household entities and itself, as well as to keep flue gases hotter for an increased burn efficiency. In residential applications, this decrease of surrounding space requirements is often a necessity.<br/><br/>The present invention seeks to improve upon the overall efficiency of the stand-alone stove system by effectively displacing wasted heat and transferring it to a more viable medium and location, through water and copper tubing. Used in coordination with an insulated storage tank and/or a radiant floor heating system, the double-wall stove pipe heat exchanger displaces the wasted heat acting as an insulator in between the inner and outer wall structure, without creating excess creosote build-up, by means of a loosely wound coils over an extended span. <br/><br/>Summary of the Invention<br/><br/>This invention involves an apparatus for fluid heat exchange between the inner and outer walls of double-wall stove pipe, by current means of modification to standard manufactured goods, using copper tubing arranged in a coiling fashion around the inner wall, and supported by its own weight, as well as an inlet and outlet connection on the top and bottom of the section. This tubing is heated by the air pocket in between the inner and outer wall of the pipe.<br/><br/>Description of the Drawing (No DWG available) 
<br/><br/>FIG. 1 is an illustration showing in perspective a conventional wood burning stove with a one foot section double-wall stove pipe fluid heat exchanger, on the base of the flue pipe, used in conjuction with a radiant floor heating system.<br/><br/>FIG. 2 is an illustration of a one foot section of a double-wall stove pipe fluid heat exchanger.<br/><br/>FIG. 3 is a cross section of a one foot section of a double-wall stove pipe fluid heat exchanger.<br/><br/>FIG. 4 is a top view of a one foot section of a double-wall stove pipe heat exchanger.<br/><br/>FIG. 5 is an exploded perspective view of a one foot section of a double-wall stove pipe fluid heat exchanger.