---
main: projects
quote: If your life's work can be accomplished in your lifetime, you're not thinking big enough
---

I received a phone call one afternoon during the summer of 2008 from a friend eating at Chipoltle: "I just read something on the back of my drink, and it reminded me of you.". The particular quotation, referenced above, was apparently uttered by a man named Wes Jackson地nd I couldn't have said it better myself. My projects are plentiful, costly, and broader than my scope allows; after all, digital medium is cheap (not in my heart), but I tend to think on a larger scale. The belief in freely spread information and ideas resonates with me, and also why I share my projects with you. Trademark, copyright, blech -- in the grand scheme of things, we can only hope that the tipping point has been reached in terms of the their political and lawful states, and that eventually, a moderate balance will be reached. For now如irate! Steal! If it doesn't sit right with you, chances are, it's not! Fix it. Build it. Create it. In the words of the famous Ms. Frizzle, "Take chances, make mistakes, get messy!" never-ending list of projects comes from my quest to conquer the world in its entirety (or possibly, an infatuation with all things living and breathing). While I may never be able to consider myself a master of entirety, the Jack-of-all-Trades description suits me nicely地nd here's to dying trying for the former!

My never-ending list of projects comes from my quest to conquer the world in its entirety (or possibly, an infatuation with all things living and breathing). While I may never be able to consider myself a master of entirety, the Jack-of-all-Trades description suits me nicely地nd here's to dying trying for the former!

Enjoy exploring. It's a magical world :)