I Got Booted / Frank and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day

I hate the Chicago bureaucracy. Let me tell you a story of love and hate and all the things in between. Back in the summer I painted the front bumper on my '95 Civic. I lost the front plate after putting the bumper back on, and filed a police report and contacted the secretary of state to get a new front plate sent in. $6 bucks for a new one. Nice. They faxed me a piece of paper to put in my front window as a substitute until the plate was mailed to me. But alas, the fine gentleman at the Chicago Police Department neglected this piece of paper day in and day out, and I received roughly 10 parking tickets of $50 each for 'NO FRONT PLATE'. So, I contested every ticket by mail. I got out of almost every ticket, except for 2 of them-I was ordered to pay $50 per ticket. How is it possible that I could be guilty and not guilty for the same offense!?!<br/>I spent 5 hours at the Daley Center one summer afternoon going through the motions to appeal those two tickets. Funny story-they charge you to appeal a ticket. Oh yea, you can get the charge waived, but it's in another room. On another floor. And you have to go all the way downstairs to the lobby and take a different elevator to get there. After all this time spent there, I finally got a court date to appeal the tickets, in JANUARY. Jesus H. Christ. <br/>Flash forward to today. I walk outside. My beautiful little ricer was booted. My first thoughts: I swear to god if that scratches my rim I'm going to milk the city for all their worth. My second thoughts: FUCK. I did contemplate taking the boot off, but since the car is under my dad's name, he would probably have killed me. But without the probably. The reason I got booted: two parking tickets hadn't been paid. Two parking tickets for 'NO FRONT PLATE'. Two parking tickets I had appealed and was waiting to go to court for. You've got to be kidding me right? NO. Apparently the two city branches I was dealing with don't recognize each other, and hence, why I received a boot. Here's the kicker: the tickets were now $100 a piece and there is a 'Boot Fee' of $60. If you don't pay that within 24 hours, you're car will get towed, causing another $150 fee. FUCKERS. And you can't pay over the phone, no sirree. That would make way to much sense. In fact, they want you to DRIVE to one of 5 locations in the city and pay there. You just booted my car, how the fuck do you want me to get there?<br/>
I called the number on the little orange sticker they plaster to your window after getting booted. The ONLY way to talk to a real person is to pretend you have a rotary phone and wait for all the menu options to be listed. That's just stupid, I told the man on phone after he told me to drive to a location to pay the boot fee. 'I know, he said, but it's the way it works.' Don't tell me you know it's stupid, that's stupid. ASSES. I paid because I needed a car tomorrow.<br/>On the way home from this catastrophe, Babe O'Reilly came on the radio, a song I had not