---
layout: layout
header: a facebook note.
quote: My Sister's High School Graduation Speech
back: writings.html
---

I am getting rid of my Myspace very soon...and doing so requires that I get rid of the "blog" section. So, here is a writing from August 16, 2006. 

This is the speech my sister, the 2006 class president of Bartlett High School, gave at graduation. I helped her write some of it (if you can't tell from some of the references), but she really did a great job. I figured I would post it becasue she is going away to school in a few days and I will miss her, even though she is quite a pain in the ass.

I've Heard that its possible to grow up; I've just never actually met anyone that has. The real world. How many of us are actually going to find out what it is after today? For those of us headed to a university after the summer, the answer is: we won't find out any time soon. At least not tomorrow. In the next four to five years we will learn more about ourselves then we ever imagined. That group of 6 you're always with-the roommates that are completely opposite-the time spent in classrooms-and the time spent ditching class: these are just a few of the things that will change our values, beliefs, and our style. Just a few of the things that will define who we are forever. In a moment of rememberance at our next graduation ceremony, assuming we make it to class on a regular basis, most of us will look back at ourselves now and wonder how we could have ever been so naive about the world. William Shakespeare once said "we know what we are, but know not what we may be." College is still a woobie, a security blanket, for most of us; we know how many credits we need to graduate and what classes we need to take to make our schedule a bit easier. The real world, however, has no boundaries, no advisers. College is something you complete-life is something you experience. Let's try to never forget that. Take chances and make mistakes, live with no regret. Embrace the uncertainty and allow it to lead you places. Whether you continue on with a formal education or not, never stop learning. Dont lose sight of who you are, and who you want to become. Believe in yourself, and never give up hope that destiny will deliver you your defining moment. And when you do end up out there, always make sure that the juice is worth the squeeze. I hope your dreams take you to the corners of your smiles, to the highest of your hopes, to the windows of your opportunities, and to the most special places your heart has ever known. Id like to leave you with one of my favorites from the Disney channel original movie, Johnny Tsunami: GO BIG OR GO HOME.