I sure do like to gripe about things in these FB notes :)<br/>Upon falling asleep for 3 hours after working all day, I woke up at 11:45 p.m., just in time to start my system dynamics homework due...well, today. I looked at it for a while with a very perplexed expression on my face-the kind of look on a dog's face when he plays with the poo that just came out of his ass. I took a much needed study break and turned on the tube after getting a snickety-snack of milk and cookies. Very excited I was to find a Frank Capra movie just about to start on the Wise Channel; a movie by the name of 'Meet John Doe', a movie I had never seen (shocking). Let me say this: It's a Wonderful Life and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington (both Capra movies) are 2 of my top 5 movies of all time. Jimmy Stewart was in both of those, and gosh if I don't just love the idealistic characters he portrays-kind of hits home ya know? However, Gary Cooper was the lead in this movie, and at first I didn't like him (because he wasn't Jimmy), but he grew on me big time; probably because he portrayed another one of those bumbling idealistic Capra-esque characters. So, I'm watching the movie...and loving every minute of it. Me, myself, and my cookies-very happy.<br/>THEN COMES 3:45 a.m. The movie is two hours long (I just looked it up), which meant that it only had 15 minutes left, since it started at 2 a.m. 15 fucking minutes of inspirational, heartwarming, spine-tingling goodness, change the world type shit. AND GUESS MOTHERFUCKING WHAT?<br/>BLIP.<br/>The grey screen of death appears.<br/>Now I'm paraphrasing here, but the fucking screen with the fucking grey background with the fucking white letters said 'This is a scheduled yada yada yada between 3:45 and 4 a.m. yada yada yada go fuck yourself because you're not going to finish the movie you glass bitch.' <br/>So I didn't get to finish the movie. Now I ACTUALLY have to legally buy it, seeing as it's definitely not available to download.<br/> How about those hats though? Gary Cooper looks like a bamf. When I run my own company, I think the dress code is going to be: you come in dressed completely casual or dressed completely like a bamf, with a hat :)