Teenage Mutant Ninja...Rats. Yes, that's what I said. I'll start at the beginning...<br/>The Lambdas had a fairly dirty apartment for quite a long time. In rat terms, 'dirty' means tropical paradise...lets say Isla Nublar. Every city dweller has seen a rat at some point or another, usually just another loner scavenging for scraps and some leftover crack rocks until he can get another big score. Once discovered, they usually scamper pretty quickly into the inner-cement highways that lie in the city's foundation. Sadly, it is these rats that lend their image to the rodent stereotype.<br/>Sabatoge. <br/>We were first aware of our rat problem when we lost both internet and cable due to the power cables of the modem and cable box being chewed through. My roommate Matt and myself were discussing possible causes of the fraying...<br/>Frank: 'do you think that maybe someone is coming in to our apartment and cutting the cords?'<br/>Matt: 'HAHA, no....AHHHHH (screams like girl and jumps)'<br/>At this point, a huge fucking rat the size of something large scampered out from where we were searching for the cause of fraying and darted back into one of the holes in the wall behind our furniture. This convinced us that the rat(s) were trying to sabatoge our lines of communication to the outside world. <br/>The secret of the ooze...er pellets. It was after this that we started to notice the monster holes chewed in our garbage bags sitting in the kitchen. One of use would walk into the kitchen, see the rat on top of the garbage bag, and then with the speed of speedy gonzalez....vamanos-into the hole in the wall. It was time to take action: they were out of rat traps at the store, so we bought rat pellets, 4 trays of monster green killer pellets. <br/>
The rats, being smarter than we thought, didn't take to them right away. We decided to clear the garbage off of the floor so they would have no choice. Within a few weeks the pellets were gone, and so was our problem, or so we thought...bum bum bum.<br/>The return.<br/>A couple weeks had passed, I think, with no real problems. We kept the gargabe bag on the kitchen table to avoid the bastards ripping it to shreds, and life was good. Then the monsters came out of hiding. Super rats that could go anywhere, on tables, through walls, hell if they could fucking fly it wouldn't surprise me. The monster green killer pellets had morphed them into super rats, velocirats, some other cool name: either way, they came back with a vengeance. And they were on to our plans to eliminate them...<br/>They hunt in packs.<br/>The other day I noticed 3 rolls that had been thrown away placed by the rat hole. After questioning my rommates, I found that NONE of them had placed them there, and on the contraire, they thought I had done it. These rats were going into our garbage and moving rolls over to the hole so their mutant friends could come and have a snack! They were fucking outwitting us. It was time to take REAL action.<br/>The future.<br/>We bought 3 rat traps at home depot. We're going to get those sons of bitches. I love the smell of nepalm in the morning.