---
layout: layout
header: a dedication
quote: Never sent, was to be continued
back: writings.html
---

I had a couple weeks off between graduation and my entrance into a salaried position, and I spent it trying to formulate the beginning of a letter to the Engineering Department at UIC, for betterment of the program. My intial thoughts on (somewhat) completing it were correct; I withheld the letter until I had experienced the corporate world, and I plan to add and edit from my current perspective when the inspiration comes about.

To the staff of the UIC College of Engineering,

It has been two weeks since I graduated with a Bachelor's Degree in Mechanical Engineering. I have finally had time to reflect on my experience here at UIC, and more specifically the many hours logged in the confines of the SEL and ERF buildings. I have chatted with many students here of different engineering backgrounds, as well as with other engineering students at (somewhat) nearby schools, such as Northern Illinois University, the University of Illinois-Champaign Urbana, and Purdue University. These students, as well as some faculty members, have provided the opposing arguments I needed to formulate propositions for a better UIC College of Engineering, herein referred to as the COE.

It is my opinion, in order to understand where my problems (and applause) with (and for) the COE come from, that you need a basic background of my college history, a resume of sorts. If you don't think this to be the case, skip this paragraph. I was a five-year Mechanical Engineering Major and Mathematics Minor, and most of the engineering students I started with back in the fall of 2003 were five-yearers as well. I am not really sure how it happened, but I became good friends (outside the classroom, of course) with many of the club Presidents from major engineering societies here at UIC: ACM, IIE, IEEE and the SAE. I was also President of a sports club at one time, and played in two club sports throughout the course of my five years. My accomplishments at UIC were mostly outside the classroom, ranging from my own website design company to classic automobile restoration and reproduction parts engineering. I guess I just found the hands-on aspect of engineering more interesting than the lectures taken directly from my $150 (a piece!) books.

Before I get into the problems I have had with the COE in the past, I'd like to address the positive attributes of attending school here, of which there are many! The engineering offices on the first floor of SEO, and Veronica's office in the ERF (including adjacent offices) have been completely accomodating to mine and other student's problems. Chris Kuypers, Veronica Wrangel, and that miscellaneous lady in the office have always fixed any problem and answered any question I had, on issues ranging from graduations checks to Enterprise holds. I can't even begin to fathom the amount of questions they take and problems they fix nearly instantaneously from other students. I can only hope some of the suggestions I propose make their jobs easier.

I have tried to avoid Professors outside of class, partially because of my non-attendance. When I did manage to have outside interaction with them, I found that some were better than others (naturally). My personal experience with three specific instructors, Michael Brown, Michael Chimack, and Robert Miller, is outlined below. 

A full year after taking ME 380 (Materials for Manufacturing) with Professor Michael Brown, I e-mailed him regarding the 'how-tos' of going about the reproduction of a polycarbonate lense. He responded to all of my questions in a long-winded and much-detailed manner I was not expecting, knowing full well I was a ghost student during his time as a Professor to me - this is very admirable trait.

I had Professor Michael Chimack and Robert Miller as instructors for ME 424 (Energy Management & Solutions), one of the most stimulating tech-electives I have taken (and classes in general). Their views on teaching a class were very modern compared with many other engineering classes here. For example, all homeworks were available online, and all homeworks were turned in through e-mail. This doesn't sound very impressive at first glance, but even now there are still many engineering classes where blackboard is not used (or the MIE website, of which whose problem I will get to later). I understand that this is not fully plausible for all classes, but a standardization is needed throughout the college (for many other things as well).

From here on out I will be stating my problem/solution analysis, first on a general COE basis, and then on a class by class basis (from general education to Mechanical/Industrial classes). Creativy is the key to making changes without monetary use, and I hope that somebody high enough up on the ladder takes at least something away from this letter. I can only offer ideas, and unfortunately that is the easy part.

Engineering students cheat, technically speaking, that is. The reasoning behind our cheating is rectified easily, the mummified teaching system the excuse. We are of a different generation than the Professors. We have different sets of beliefs, and different views on how things should work. More importantly, we are a generation with an impeccable understanding of technology and its fine uses. Example 1: the TI-83 (Plus) calculator. My TI-83 holds a 'program' for nearly every test I have taken throughout my entire five-year career at UIC. Look for yourself: (note to self, link programs)


ACIDS | APPHYSIC | CALC1 | CALC2 | CALC3 | CALC4 | CALCULUS | CEM260 | CEMM | CHEM112 | CHEM2 | CHEM5 | DIFFEQ | DYNAMICS | ECE | FINAL | GRAM | HEAT | INTEGRAL | MATERIAL | MATH | MAXANDMI | ME | ME250 | ME320 | ME320FIN | ME321 | ME321FIN | ME380 | ME428 | ME447 | ME4472 | P2YSICS | PHYS2 | PHYS2222 | PHYS244 | PHYSICS | PHYSICS2 | SOLUBLE | SYSTEM | THERM11 | THERM12 | THERM2 | THERM0 | THERMO3 | THERMQ | THERM9 |


Those programs can be accessed by the 'edit' menu after pressing the program ('PGRM') button on the calculator. Inside these programs is generally the same thing: memorizable equations, unit conversions, and definitions (I had filled all of my memory with the very last program I entered, before my very last test, and I actually had to delete some for the space to make calculations.) Much time went into inputting the programs into my calculator, but on the newer calculators, a text file from your computer can be uploaded to the calculator in a pinch. I can only imagine some of your out-dated responses to this. The first being, 'You should know all the equations from doing the homeworks', and the second being 'You could have spent the time inputting equations actually memorizing them'. Bollucks to both. My rebuttal to the two statements is the same: I have seen even the front-seater students (the students who take such complete notes they could tell you what the professor was wearing) input notes into their calculator for use on a test, and the reasons are quite simple: in case of a total mind-blank, or because they had two other mid-terms that day. The human mind is capable of many things, but it has it's faults; when you have a midterm that accounts for 40% of your semester grade, nobody can afford to take chances.

This emphasis that is put on memorization is too old-fashioned. We are the Google generation. Anything we want to know is available at the tip of our fingers. It shouldn't be the memorization of equations that is emphasized, but rather the knowledge of concepts and the applications of practical usage on which we are tested. It wouldn't require much effort by Professors to get rid of calculators on tests, and by doing so you would get a better idea of what the students actually know (unless the goal of the college is to just get ranked higher on those lists). Make us apply the equations, and by apply, I don't mean derive. On many a test I have received points for just writing down the equation, from my calculator, and many other students have as well. This is also bollucks. I would rather have taken a more 

If you know the right people, you can get your hands on a solutions manual in PDF format for almost every engineering text book. The problem (or one of them) then lies with a usual 10% of your grade being determined by who you know, not what you know. 10% is a relatively small percentage of your grade, but when homework turns into 25% of your grade, like with ME 380, all of a sudden not having a solutions manual, whilst others do, becomes problematic. If you're wondering, the answer is yes, this happened to me. About three-quarters of the way through the homeworks in ME 380, I caught wind there was a manual. Based on my terrible homework scores (I didn't put enough time in, that much is true), a whole letter grade was the difference at the end of the semester. So who I knew, not what I knew, affected my grade. Obviously, solutions manuals will never be rid of, and they are actually very helpful when studying for a test. I would suggest that if the homework is going to be weighted so heavily, than the problems not be taken directly out of the book, just as Saggere does with ME 320 (Mechanisms of Machinery).

I have been lucky enough to know people who have access to many years worth of past tests, for many engineering classes. These are not just the ones given to students on Blackboard for pre-exam practice, some of these tests are not available otherwise, and have problems directly transferable to the current semester's tests. So the problem then becomes, once again, not what you know, but who you know, and how much of those problems you can transfer into your calculator. 

As a web designer without a graphic design background, I can still point out the obvious need for UIC as a whole to transition to a more aesthetically pleasing and user friendly web interface. This not only goes for what the public sees, but also the students and faculty. Take, for example, the lack of organization (or standardization?) of the course home pages. Just this past semester I had a class that was only accessible from blackboard, and another one that was only available on the class websites (uic.edu/classes/me/me#). It may not seem obvious, but this lack of standardization shows that the college isn't quite as 'put together' as it should be. Another issue is when class class websites are not as well-updated as they should be. Whether it be the T.A.'s job or a graders, it should get done. The world is digital, and the COE should appear to be put together for the price students pay.

I will give a bullet-style list of the professors I have had in the COE, the class for which I had them, and will state their positives and negatives. The order is alphabetical.

Elodie Adida, IE 342
Prashant Banerjee, IE 464
Soyoung Cha, ME 341
Carmen Lilley, ME 396
Francis Loth, Advisor
Saheed Manafazzzhed, IE 201
W. J. Minkowycz, ME 205, ME 428
Thomas Royston, ME 312
Laxmann Saggere, ME 320
Alexander Yarin, ME 211