I have read a slew of articles in the past year about Nicolas Cage, and all of them were negative; see the link for an example:<br/>http://blogs.tnr.com/tnr/blogs/the_plank/archive/2009/03/24/is-nicolas-cage-the-worst-movie-star-alive.aspx<br/>So, let's try something different - a positive, short note about Nicolas Coppola.<br/>Going through the IMDB list of all the movie's he's been in, I found that I hadn't seen the only movie he won an oscar for: Leaving Las Vegas. I did, however, count 9 movies that I had liked.<br/>Peggy Sue Got Married<br/>Raising Arizona<br/>Moonstruck<br/>Honeymoon in Vegas<br/>It Could Happen to You<br/>Gone in 60 Seconds<br/>The Family Man<br/>Matchstick Men<br/>The Weather Man<br/>Of these 9, 3 movies - Moonstruck, It Could Happen to You, and Gone in 60 Seconds - have genuinely moved me.<br/><br/>Moonstruck -
Rose: Do you love him, Loretta?<br/>Loretta Castorini: Aw, ma, I love him awful.<br/>Rose: Oh, God, that's too bad. <br/>All the characters remind me of my Italian side, and they really ARE like that. How can you not smile?<br/><br/>It Could Happen to You - <br/>The scene at the end, 'Even in their darkest hour…', gets me teary-eyed every time. Heart warming, a true classic -> I sound like Roger Ebert.<br/><br/><br/>Gone in 60 Seconds - I should point something major out here that most people fail to see. Car guys need car movies. It just so happens that car movies, generally speaking, have terrible plot lines. But it's ok, because Eleanor (1967 Shelby GT 500 Mustang Fastback) changed my life forever, and more than made up for the plot. She added a massive weight to the love side of my love/hate relationship with American Muscle.