---
layout: post
main: false
status: completed
category: thoughts
subcategory: writing
back: thoughts.html
title: a dedication.
quote: The longest dedication in the history of histories.
---

The first of a two-part story, based on events in my life. I first heard the term 'grifter' from the title of a little-known John Cusack movie (big fan). I have never seen it, but know the basic premise. If I had to compare the feel of the screenplay to other films, I would mention SLC Punk, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, and anything early Kevin Smith. In other words, lots of dialogue. This story originally started out in book form as a collection of stories. I decided the medium wasn't condusive to the tales since I could practically picture the film in my head. I prepared quite a long dedication, though, and it's too much a part of my soul to sit in the bowels of Google Docs.", content: "I shall take this chance, possibly my one and only (hence the length), to administer gratitude towards the most influential sources in my life; all artists in their own right, and all of whom I dare not impose physical bother. By now, I should have given my gratitude to those most closest to me; my utmost thanks goes out to everyone who helped with the book. Each and all of you, really - thanks - I love you for it. Also, I promised to refrain from one word dedications for persons of single names or initials like vast dedications seem to to; I owe these influential people the full and explanatory truth, it is the least I can do.
        
To Jean Craighead George
At a young age, I was forced to read books - 600 minutes of reading (or something like that) ensured my parents would not have to buy me a ticket to Great America on our yearly summer excursion with the Kempski family, thanks to a program at my elementary school. I was never bothered by reading at this young age, but the program was a good nudge on the back. My parents had mostly filled the bookshelves with televison-bought collections from Time Life and Dr. Seuss; vintage novels and car magazines, whose names I did not recognize, padded the rest. Sometime between the ages of ten and twelve I stumbled upon a browned, tattered, first-printing copy of My Side of the Mountain, a 1959 novel about a runaway boy living in the Catskills. It had been my father's childhood book, and became the first story I read recurrently, frazzling it greatly more in the process. At this age, I had not yet learned the appreciation and anticipatory feelings involved in returning to old favorites years later, something I would compare to seeing an old friend (but more on that farther down in the dedication). Simply put, I could not bear separating myself from the story once finished; I dreamed of adventures to come, and did my very best to emulate the mountain adventures in the Hawk Hollow Forest Preserve, which my suburban house resided next to.

In middle school I became a fairly avid reader, and gravitated my attention to writers I knew and regarded; the Julie (and the Wolves) series became the yellow-brick road out of the classroom I would grow to feel such repugnance for. I also discovered the sequel to my father's lacerated book in my middle school library, and I considered it a fitting end.

I thank you for, even if by luck, instilling a sense of true adventure in me at a young age. From then on, though I didn't realize it, my choices would all take on a fictitious quality. Things others never dreamed of doing, I did - even if only for the sake of adventure! For 'impossible' never subsiding in my vocabulary, I thank you.

To Bill Watterson
It was the fall of Nineteen Ninety-Five, and I was in fifth grade. For fifteen minutes every Tuesday we were forced to sit quietly and read something of value; the dictators called it 'Sustained Silent Reading', or SSR in short. At this age, mind you, only some of us read. The others, clearly too cool for reading, carved initials into desks (years later these kids would fail at life). It was also during this time that Scholastic pamphlets were passed out, each copy holding descriptions for the newly released books in our age group's favorite series: Goosebumbs, The Boxcar Children, Animorphs, etc. Mrs. Musial's class, fifth grade, SSR.

I was parusing through the pamphlet with moderate excitement; you never did know what exciting new series lay ahead. I remember stumbling upon a comic book collection, The Days Are Just Packed. It was my first run-in with Calvin & Hobbes. The collection was given good remarks from a fellow classmate, Blake Edwards. He was in my Cub Scout pack years before, and by now he had become relatively "cool" for a fifth grader - he was dating a brunette hottie from the sixth grade, if I do recall correctly. Anyways…

In those days my parents did the physical purchasing, and any book from the pamphlet I had chose, circled in red, usually got the green light. They never asked any questions or filtered content; at the very least, I had that going for me. I recall going through The Days Are Just Packed very quickly. Not-so coincidentally, I started reading the comics in the morning paper, and thus my love affair with the inked strip began.

The last strip of Calvin & Hobbes was published on December Thirty-First, Nineteen Ninety-Five, six days after I received a few new book collections for Christmas: Homicidal, Physco Jungle Cat, Revenge of the Baby-Sat, and The Essential Calvin and Hobbes. It is with great fondness that I remember reading the last strip, tears filling my eyes.

As I read my way through all the collections over the course of the next few years, I also read, and re-read, every foreword and extraneous bit of information Mr. Watterson had to share about his life and the strip, which gave me and the like much more insight into his mind and actions regarding the strip. I also found myself taking up other comic collections, though The Far Side and Foxtrot are the the only ones which still remain in my Rob Gordon 'Top Five' list.

You once made a comment about a strip either having to be greatly illustrated or greatly worded to succeed, and Calvin & Hobbes fits into both. Up until I discovered your now legendary strip, I had never laughed or cried with any fictituous characters. Thank you, Mr. Watterson, for instilling in me the ability to connect with the inanimate, to feel emotion towards art of any form.

To Michael Crichton
In seventh grade Honors Algebra I came upon Sphere. Kyle Sater, my nearest table neighbor, lent it to me for SSR; a thick paperback with a large, orange sticker, 'soon-to-be-major-motion-picture'. I have no rememberance of how long it took me to read through the novel, but I do know this - fifteen minutes of SSR time was enough of an intellectual instigation to ask for its borrowment. Mr. Crichton and I had a falling out for eleven years, aside from his major motion picture releases. It was only in a small Colorado library that I discovered a set of three novels, in one large hardcover mass: The Andromeda Strain, The Terminal Man, and The Great Train Robbery. It had been lengthy amount of time since I'd read anything novelic; online news, the daily newspaper, random poems, and some short stories - I felt it was time.

I was immediately thrust into the world of realism this man is capable of creating. One wonders how such a great technical writer can even exist. The way he handled words is something I will never be able achieve, but become more appreciative of as the numerality of my writing works increases. Thank you Mr. Crichton, for allowing me to regain hold of the written word, and most importantly, for allowing myself to fully realize the power of fiction. This was written just a short time after his death, and I am sorry he will never be able to see it.

To J.K. Rowling
After all the hype, I decided to pick up my sister's copy of Harry Potter and the Sorceror's Stone for a bit of light reading. It was early on in high school, the summer between my Freshman and Sophmore years. I read through the first two years at Hogwarts, stopping right during the reign of terror at the Quidditch Cup of the third - just around the time varsity hockey and work seemed to take over my life for the duration of high shool.

Flash forward eight years. I was inspired to partake in a Harry Potter movie marathon after gaining access to all of them, somewhat illegally (OK, completely). I observed one each night for five nights consecutively. I realize that the films could never do the books complete justice, but I think they are quite complimentary (the moving picture frames brought to life on screen no doubt inspired many others to do the same with current technology). There is something deep within our personalities which allows us all to take interest in, and develop a fondness for, the progression of a character in a story. After watching the actors grow up on screen, I became more attached to the story of Harry Potter then ever before. I was inspired enough to read the last two installments in three sittings, stopping only to maintain myself as a decent human being. Three fantastic moments, and three different feelings, came of these last two installments. Overwhelming joy (I did a happy dance!) when Ginny and Harry first embraced in The Half-Blood Prince, extreme sadness - so much so that slow, soppy tears dropped down my face - throughout the latter of Snape's memory in The Deathly Hallows, and thirdly, something which I had never felt - a newly learned emotion.

After finishing the series, I did not feel sad like my younger self had been after finishing My Side of the Mountain. Something had changed. My first thoughts drew upon myself in the future, few to several years from now, re-discovering the series - long after the final films had been released - following the characters and their wonderful adventures once again. I thought of my children discovering them, after growing to an age which they would be appreciated, and a feeling of great warmth came over me. Harry Potter shall live in my heart and mind forever, and I thank you, Miss Rowling, for instilling in me the ability to accept aging and the end, and I can't wait for the time when my mind pines for a visit from old friends in the form of hardcover.

To the Moving Image
There were times when reading for pleasure was lost on me. In those gaps, mostly wrought through late high school and early collegiate years, I discovered the moving image in all its forms - from late night Turner Classic films to the most glorious CGI productions. I tend to be an optimist, and found the smallest genuine experiences in even the most piteous films - something books never allowed me to do (as you have to work at a book). This may mean that countless hours were lost on rambling films, but the great works (and consequentially, most of the AFI Top 100 list) more than made up for it.<br/><br/>And at last, to J.L.W., though we never met.