---
layout: post
main: false
status: in-progress
category: thoughts
subcategory: blog
back: thoughts.html
title: movie day.
quote: Terra!
---

Every once in a while **\[when the opportunity presents itself\]**, I take a day for film - call it a rejuvenation of sorts. I've done this since I was a kid, but never with a purpose in my younger years; back then, free time was a sparity **\[no time to spare+rarity\]**. My friend Paul's Wisconsin cabin was the last instance I can remember of a plethoral viewance, way back in my collegiate days. Poor weather and sun-comas brought on screenings of _Out Cold_ and various other re-watchables **\[along with heavy boozing\]**. 

This weekend's case was no different, except for one thing: I wasn't surrounded by drunken lobsters, or even a Squeeks trying to maintain dignity. When the happenstance of a film day finally did come about-face, I plopped down with an alcoholic-inebriator in one hand, positioned the laptop where its namesake beckons, and sat through a series of cinema I felt the need to rediscover, hoping to gain inpsiration and cheer.

I was dog-sitting in Lakewood (a non-plain boxed suburb of Denver) this weekend, and though I didn't partake in any new films, many were revisited for the first time in years, and in Blu-Ray! In between my various activiites, I managed to watch The Fifth Element, Risky Business, Gone With the Wind, Dirty Dancing, more than half a smidgen of of Diner, and just up to the part where Luca Brazi meets with Don Corleone in The Godfather (Part I). If I came out of this weekend with anything, it was a reaffirmation of my sentimentality - we'll call it a defining moment.

The focus of this note is changing - I want feedback on a decision regarding my house more-so than my sappyness (some of you just went...phewww). I'm heading down to my land in a couple weeks; I will be stopping in Salida for Fibark (super excited!), trying some liquid mountaineering while I'm there, then paying my property taxes and getting a permit for legitimate building. Since I am doing things correctly, I figured I would 'go all the way' and christen the property too (non-denominationally, of course). One day, a street sign bearing the words Privet Drive will grace my driveway, but what's tearing me apart is a property/ranch name. Naming something is a terrible process; the Jeep is the only car I've owned bearing a title (Big Red). I am a country divided - Zihuatanejo (as in my Mexico), or Tara?

Post Script (courtesey of Risky Business): Sometimes you just gotta say, 'What the fuck', and make your move.