---
layout: thoughts_post
main: false
status: in-progress
category: thoughts
subcategory: blog
back: thoughts.html
title: Analog
quote: All I can say is, "Go Back".
---

Whether the onset of age or the monotony of developer life have brought it on, the mass realization stage of the simple pleasures in life is upon me. Lowly and slowly has this fact become become apparent - I require only a small dose of interestingness to make me happy. While I've come across weekly blurbs on this state of mind through various intranet sources - the more prominent being Paul Graham's ToDo List and ..., my skull seems to be thick as molasses, making it hard for things to stick after the first _two_ go-rounds of infiltrating my brain.

I've gone analog. Well, mostly.

I remember sitting on a couch draped in clear plastic film; it resembled the bags my mother would put my father's nice clothes in and hang inside their closet. My posture was always unaiding against gravity's ~~will~~ torment as I would slip off the couch. I couldn't have been older than _eleven_, when my great grandmother - my depression era still made dandelion soup relative - was still live. She was a Jehovah's witness, so there were odd religous artifacts hanging on the wall. My grandfather always said she was just `fucked up catholic`, it made me laugh. 

The most vivid memory I have of her suburban Palatine house is the record player; it was set on this massive wood antiquity which served to hold the record player and a television with a dial. I loved to stare at the record player, always curious as to how the needle dispelled sound from grooves. 

I consider myself lucky. I was bequethed a time period to live in which afforded me the comforts of modern technology but also the capacity to explore and capture a love for the loqouacious earth. I'm not sure if it was my parent's subconcsous choices ore just luck that I ended up living next to or on top of forest preserves m entire life; at least until I moved to the city, that is. It was never a question of technology vs nature - when it was nice, we played outside, explored the woods, and did generally suburban bike riding things that kids do. There was video games and n64 goodness, and I remember vividly the first time I walked up to a console at blockbuster with a mario 64 game ready for teh playing. Being that there was only abougt a 5-10 minute window, I flipped and yipped all around the outskirts of the castle. Talk about revolution.

I've noticed a lot of posts lately regarding the same thing. http://nathanael.hevenet.com/dont-worry-about-your-productivity-worry-about-you/
maybe it's because i'm more aware of it.

http://www.ridinginshoppingcarts.com/post/33988718367/how-i-simplified-my-life

Link to the daring fireball.

analog means going local.

The 

I first used a pasta maker when I befriended a guy in my writing workshop class we had gathered in off of Craigslist. So very unlike me. I was a guest at a birthday party in the suburbs of Denver, and the kitchenware caught me off guard, never having thought about mechanical appliances of this kind. My parents cooked simply and very Midwestern poor immigrant - pasta, pototatoes, meatloaf. And blandly at that. Sidetrack. I inquired about the beutiful pieces - 1 a juice squeezer of some sort, the other 

(This is probably why my side side of the mountain hit home).

Cell phones didnt' exist mainstreamly until about _1996_.

on food. and being better.

going back.
what brought about this?
on leaving facebook.
on removing from my phone.
the great sensation which comes from facebook posts or twitter posts notifications.
the sesnation which comes from tangible elements. why i love teh internet of things.

vintage kitchen.
washing mashine thing from ariel.
typewriter.
daringfireball link.


analog and my skiw web. 
faceboko - turned off twitter.
too much.

on the cabin
In case you haven't heard, I've been building a cabin in the high mountain valley of San Luis [](). It's been exactly _three_ years since I ended my first fall stint out there - living in a van, alone, poor - and loving it. Originally, I planned on using some great technologies in the house, especially that of solar. I've spent quite a few nights in the house now, some on the floor being inspected by mice, and some on a cot in a sleeping bag. I've also spent "vacation" time sitting in front of an iPhone tethered connection powered by a generator coding on a deadling. While I would like to inconprorate some technology into the house - making it easier tomanage from a distance, I don't want it to be an overwhelming force there. I find I don't need that much to be happy, as long as I've got some essentials on hand.

I had never physically pressed keys in the way you would form a sentance on a typewriter until I visited the Sugar Bake shop in Denver. There, they allow you to cull your own words on garbage paper and tape them above and around said vintage vicinity. As I stated above, a phonograph of some sort was always in the cards. It wasn't untl this moment I fully came to realize this typewrite would be more than ideal piece of history.



