---
layout: post
main: false
status: wip
category: thoughts
subcategory: blog
back: thoughts.html
title: be better.
quote: A New Year's Resolution.
---

There exists such a white board placed an arm's length above a walkway in my home - between the kitchen and living room - whose sole purpose, for better or worse, is to provide inspiration from insightful quotations..or a grocery list. On New Year's Day _2012_, I tediously erased long-standing prior art and scripted the words `BE BETTER` in all capital letters across it; the taste of fresh ink wetting the back of my mouth as the smell made its way through my nasal passage and down. As I sometimes forget, these kinds of soul nourishing statements aren't necessarily relatable to the cynical - as such, my roommate proceeded to jest.

`These two simple words ended up being so entirely beneficial I decided to incorporate them into my life mantra`. 

<h2>[inspiration]</h2>
http://leostartsup.com/2012/08/the-myth-of-doing-%E2%80%9Cthat-one-thing%E2%80%9D/

I have read [one]() [blog]() [after]() [another]() **\[most sourced from [Hacker New](http://news.ycombinator.com)\]** analyzing the startup developer's life; the good, the bad, and mostly the ugly. We all seem to chase this **\[somewhat imaginary\]** [fortune and glory](http://youtube.com), but over the course of the past _two_ years since I became a non-degreed, full-time software developer, I've come to realize that it's never been about destitute monetary wealth **\[or maybe this is just the lie I tell myself\]**. When I took a moment for introspection, it was apparent the lifestyle choice I made had affected me in various interceding aspects; most digitally apparent was that I hadn't published anything significant since starting. `That perflecty articulates the problem, though`. Mostly, I forgot about [what originally brought me out West](http://frank.lovecch.io/projects/walden-ranch.html), and even though I tried, the [more basic fundamentals](http://www.paulgraham.com/todo.html) of how to live escaped me. As amateur hockey coaches throughout life said countless times **\[usually while drilling us to pieces\]**, `Sometimes, you just have to go back to the basics` **\[That's possibly a Jerry Maguire reference\]**. And that's just what I did.

<h2>[relationships]</h2>
As it turns out, [Facebook](http://facebook.com) makes it far too easy to manage close personal relationships; instead of fostering health, it destroys the bond with a triteness. There are so many things inherently wrong with the digital forms of communication available to us, but the most notable could best be described by the words `on the surface`. The `Like` button holds so much more than it represents, but the message it sends is hardly quantified by the person receiving it, and only so quite fleetingly. 

I can count the number of funerals and death services I've attended on both of my hands, a blessing no doubt. But from these events I was never able to grasp a lesson in relationships such a part of these events **\[at least the disfunctial ones I've attended\]**; `maintenance`. Granted, there are some special friends whom I could not talk to or see for years, and we always pick right up where we left off. Only certain types of people are capable of this. `The only time we see each other is in death`.

I turned off the social service for a month **\[including removing the app from my phone for good\]** and actually started picking up the phone and calling the people closest to me. Knowing me meant knowing `I despised the device`, so for some, it was a shocker. As it turns out, it's  liked phones in any form up until this year, and they still suckl. I found them awkward for many years. This contributed to my slower dive into the smart-phone 
I used to hate cell phones. 

Honesty.

didn't want to be the guy at the funeral saying we only see eachother then.

<h2>[technology]</h2>
I removed cable from my home, and enforced the decision by removing internet as well. I hadn't payed for television service since college, but the more-than-basic channels had been pushed to us freely by purchasing an internet-only service package **\[funny how that works\]**. I understand the allure of cable, but find far superior the time which replaces vegetable mode.

Less is more; think about the next time you have to move, and all the boxes you will need to pack. I have become a firm practicer of using techology to better life, not impaire it. LOUIS CK SKIT. I'm sure that generations ahead of me have said similar things, but I should convey I feel very blessed to have grown up with backyards adjacent to forest preserves, and in a time when it was perfectly exceptable to explore the facets of them...without having a cell phone on me.

I consider myself lucky. I was bequethed a time period to live in which afforded me the comforts of modern technology but also the capacity to explore and capture a love for the loqouacious earth. I'm not sure if it was my parent's subconcsous choices ore just luck that I ended up living next to or on top of forest preserves m entire life; at least until I moved to the city, that is. It was never a question of technology vs nature - when it was nice, we played outside, explored the woods, and did generally suburban bike riding things that kids do. There was video games and n64 goodness, and I remember vividly the first time I walked up to a console at blockbuster with a mario 64 game ready for teh playing. Being that there was only abougt a 5-10 minute window, I flipped and yipped all around the outskirts of the castle. Talk about revolution.

I was at a birthday 

Simple rules I've tried to abide by?

1. Don't pull out my cell phone when at dinner/coffee with a friend/groups of friends, unless it's one of those lazy sundays when nobody feels like talking (calvin and hobbes lazy).
1. Try not to get too infatuated with new-fangled tech products. Yes, I like [big shiny]() bright screens, but my Macbook Pro from _two_ years ago works mostly well (SSD FTW), even though it's inners are full of sawdust.

<h2>[non-digital]</h2>
Software can be monotanous. Real things test your patience even more so.

<h2>[work]</h2>
When you make a gradual change in your lifestyle over the course of a time period, it generally gets disregarded by the people you spend time with unless you, the changer, explicitly announce these changes. In man-land, this provokes fun-poking. As I've grown as a developer, I've noticed that the negative stipulations associated with my earlier career **\[bugs\]** continually are thrown in my face. 

<h2>[movement]</h2>
A friend of mine once told me that she became a distance runner because she didn't have an athletic bone in her body; it made perfect sense. She is a engineer of all kinds, and a very detail-oriented person at that. It was easy to set a course to become good. `I have never enjoyed distance running as a form of exercise`, unless I was jogging somewhere with a purpose, e.g. work. Growing up in the Midwest suburbs of Chicago, the mentality I grew up with was drive everywhere. Everything was placed too far apart for any current form of public transportation to be practical, or even slightly practical. `Even when I lived in Chicago I drove everywhere`. 

<h2>[food]</h2>
I haven't eaten a drop of fast food since I took the oath. Growing up in the Midwest is a hard mindset to get away from, as all there is to do is eat. I consisently take a verbal reaping for `eating organic`; the truth of the matter is that I don't necessarily do, but I do eat as healthy as someone who enjoys meat can. 
swearing off fast foot


on booze
making food (read going analog)
on calling your sister.
on telling my parents off.
on putting yourself out there. (match)

<h2>[books]</h2>


http://ahmetalpbalkan.com/blog/a-letter-to-myself/


The onset of aging, monotony of developer life, and  have brought it on;, the mass realization stage we'll call _Enjoying the Simple Pleasures of Life_ has arrived. Lowly and slowly has this fact become become apparent - I require only a small dose of interestingness to make me happy. While I've come across weekly blurbs on this state of mind through various intranet sources - the more prominent being Paul Graham's ToDo List and ..., my skull seems to be thick as molasses, making it hard for things to stick after the first _two_ go-rounds of infiltrating my brain.

Maybe the answer is a more analog lifestyle, at least on the surface. We're clearly programmed to accept input on that level at a more sustainable level. MREI STUDY.

I remember sitting on a couch draped in clear plastic film; it resembled the bags my mother would put my father's nice clothes in and hang inside their closet. My posture was always unaiding against gravity's ~~will~~ torment as I would slip off the couch. I couldn't have been older than _eleven_, when my great grandmother - my depression era still made dandelion soup relative - was still live. She was a Jehovah's witness, so there were odd religous artifacts hanging on the wall. My grandfather always said she was just `fucked up catholic`, it made me laugh. 

The most vivid memory I have of her suburban Palatine house is the record player; it was set on this massive wood antiquity which served to hold the record player and a television with a dial. I loved to stare at the record player, always curious as to how the needle dispelled sound from grooves. 


I've noticed a lot of posts lately regarding the same thing. http://nathanael.hevenet.com/dont-worry-about-your-productivity-worry-about-you/
maybe it's because i'm more aware of it.

http://www.ridinginshoppingcarts.com/post/33988718367/how-i-simplified-my-life

Link to the daring fireball.

analog means going local.

The 

I first used a pasta maker when I befriended a guy in my writing workshop class we had gathered in off of Craigslist. So very unlike me. I was a guest at a birthday party in the suburbs of Denver, and the kitchenware caught me off guard, never having thought about mechanical appliances of this kind. My parents cooked simply and very Midwestern poor immigrant - pasta, pototatoes, meatloaf. And blandly at that. Sidetrack. I inquired about the beutiful pieces - 1 a juice squeezer of some sort, the other 

(This is probably why my side side of the mountain hit home).

Cell phones didnt' exist mainstreamly until about _1996_.

on food. and being better.

going back.
what brought about this?
on leaving facebook.
on removing from my phone.
the great sensation which comes from facebook posts or twitter posts notifications.
the sesnation which comes from tangible elements. why i love teh internet of things.

vintage kitchen.
washing mashine thing from ariel.
typewriter.
daringfireball link.


analog and my skiw web. 
faceboko - turned off twitter.
too much.

on the cabin
In case you haven't heard, I've been building a cabin in the high mountain valley of San Luis [](). It's been exactly _three_ years since I ended my first fall stint out there - living in a van, alone, poor - and loving it. Originally, I planned on using some great technologies in the house, especially that of solar. I've spent quite a few nights in the house now, some on the floor being inspected by mice, and some on a cot in a sleeping bag. I've also spent "vacation" time sitting in front of an iPhone tethered connection powered by a generator coding on a deadling. While I would like to inconprorate some technology into the house - making it easier tomanage from a distance, I don't want it to be an overwhelming force there. I find I don't need that much to be happy, as long as I've got some essentials on hand.

I had never physically pressed keys in the way you would form a sentance on a typewriter until I visited the Sugar Bake shop in Denver. There, they allow you to cull your own words on garbage paper and tape them above and around said vintage vicinity. As I stated above, a phonograph of some sort was always in the cards. It wasn't untl this moment I fully came to realize this typewrite would be more than ideal piece of history.

<h2>Moving On</h2>
Our startup is a small mix of who's here and who's not; our Eastern European resources being the latter. Everybody knows who's on the line for what, transparency is inflicted without thought. I thought about writing something [Jerry Maguire-esque](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VH64hzWqnFk) at first, just to the older founders - internally - just to sort of put myself out there more than I have in the past. It's interesting being younger and less knowldeable when it comes to various, if not most, aspects of the business; it reminds me of sitting in the back of the classroom **\[my first choice in any new environment\]**. The back of the classroom, just like being a young developer - a young anything - allows you to take in not just the things being taught to you, but more of a global knowledege of what is happening. `I found I learned more in the back of the classroom about the environment and people in it then I ever could have at the front`. 