It's never been about the `fortune and glory`. It's never been about being a developer, or knowing how to develop. It's always been about `being better`. Being. Fucking. Better. They saying I bring up remains fairly intact - there are 2 (not 10, wankers)  kinds of people - those that do, and those that don't. You either have the urge to do or...no urges leading to don't. Doers, as Twilio recently coined (though I really think Sabi Sushi brought the term to light before them - that would be an interesting wikipedia article) - do. The article I read recently on only investing in vices which will pit lobbyists against you is entirely correct; as the lawyers of 2lemetry once said, if you're not getting sued, `you're doing it wrong.`

There was a miniscule period where it was about languages and coding and all that fun stuff, but I constnatly re-think the article of teh aged man whom knew every languaged and when it came down to it, wanted to solve problems. I have always envisioned solving problems; I just wish I had more clout to do so. Maybe this comes up because of the ridiculous political scenario which seems to infuate our country; i guess it hasn't ever really got to me. I always lived by the mantra that I shall be happy and remain happy until my life is physically affected (or those around me, obviously) by politicains. And I mean disastrously WTF is wrong with you how did this happen. I guess it's probably not a good thing, but laws have been so out of kilter my whoel life you learn to move aroudn them.


que cab driver quote.

i don't care about signups and i don't care about social networking and i probably should care about marketing but i dont' (i care about branding i guess). i just care about soliving problems, making lives better. and ridiculous shit like that. maybe it's naive at 27 to think this is still possible but i know it's possible.