---
layout: post
main: false
status: completed
category: thoughts
back: thoughts.html
title: ok, cupid.
quote: I'm a sentimentalist. 
when: 5 May 2012
---

When I was in college, I posted on Craigslist. Nothing dirty **\[that I'll admit?\]**, just a _boy seeks girl_ kind of thing. And I met a pretty girl. As is said, she was nice - read: there was absolutely no romantic connection. We did manage to became partial friends, but it never really stuck. Fast-forward _four_ years; I'm new to Colorado, unemployed, living in a garage, and had no contacts under _forty_ years of age **\[it was an interesting time]**. I really had nothing better to do but join a dating website, and I leveradged [Starbucks](http://starbucks.com)'s free Wi-Fi to do it. It was rather hard to be inconspicuous about parusing babes in a well-traveled place, but I think my tiny, _ten_ inch netbook must have helped with that. I signed up for a free monthly subscription to [Match](http://match.com), `presumably because I clicked on an ad they only show to lonely, horny, broke twenty-four year olds`.

I won't go into depth about the few dates I went on over the course of a year, but things ended up working out pretty well. Moral of the story? Write a good profile.

<h2>[an online dating profile]</h2>
In 160 characters or less (stolen from my Twitter):
"modern-day grifter, digital business empowerer, tinkerer, vintage auto enthusiast, api masherer, android developer, and at my roots: a self-taught lifehacker."

The short: I'm a sentimentalist; we're all in this together.

The medium: I find it difficult to find someone who is a worthwhile companion; it seems the lasting relationships we tend to make (as we get older) are actually less withstanding than the ones we formed in childhood (or as early, collegiate adults), and I'm hoping to find someone willing to break that stereotype.

The long: I would love to meet a cohort, a counterpoint, and a copilot. I love outgoing, intelligent, and naturally attractive spitfires who don't mind an out-of-the box gent like myself.

I am plethorally ambitious, and like to surround myself with people of the same persona. I long for a life that doesn't involve plain-boxed suburbs, cynicism, and parking tickets. I celebrate my great failures even more so than my small successes (with wine, no-less) - always striving for greatness in everything I do.

I keep myself busy with constant projects, but would really enjoy another creative soul in my life - someone to push my boundaries in thought and activity - the Patti Smith to my Robert Mapplethorpe (aside from his sexual predisposition to males). To quote a more known simile, the Allie to my Noah (if you're a bird, I'm a bird, and all that gushy stuff).

The interests: I restore, build, and create things - whether it be the digital or physical. I like oddness in all forms, and really want to attend a midnight showing of something at The Esquire. I consider fragments of myself embedded in previous generations, but my mind seems to run in current mode. I'm fairly active, and Colorado continues to throw new things at me - I enjoy sports, but rarely watch them (save Blackhawks).

The realistic: I'm looking for someone who is open-minded, considers laying under the stars and drinking wine an intimate date, and is the definable opposite of a negative-nancy. Some wit and learnedness would also be appreciated :) Ideally, I'll find a relationship that rivals [this](http://www.brintonfilms.com/lex-loren-engagementsave-the-date).
