y Thoughts on the World, nov 6, 2006
This note has been closed as of 08/03/09. I've been able to focus my thoughts on writing that could go somewhere - the words in this note just don't do it for me, but the ideas remain.<br/>By chapter.<br/>An introduction.<br/>Life as we know it.<br/>Less is more.<br/>Death and taxes.<br/>Religion.<br/>Immigration.<br/>The not so greatest generation.<br/>An introduction.<br/>This is my first real attempt at trying to focus my thoughts. It has taken many re-writes and a lot of focus to get this far, and it will probably take many more. Hopefully that's how greatness is achieved: with focus, passion, and lots of late nights :)<br/>Life as we know it.<br/>The universe if full of naturely chaos: exploding stars. colliding asteroids. sandstorms. tsunamis, you name it and we got it. There is no religious test, no Judgment Day; there is only survival in this chaotic universe. Eventually, something really bad will happen to our planet; it is just the nature of the beast. If we are strong enough as a species, we will HAVE to find a way to survive. Maybe not on Earth, but somewhere else.<br/>I've been thinking lately that if I were the Earth, I would consider people a plague of sorts. We are reproducing way too quickly, eating up every resource imaginable, and destroying everything in our path. Sure sounds like a plague to me. What makes people so special? Sure, we can manipulate our environment like no other species on this planet. But what about on other planets out there? Surely there is some species that is doing the same thing as we are, if not better.<br/>Less is more.<br/>It all starts with parking tickets. Towns, cities, and governments PAY people to enforce parking laws and other non-common law ordinances. They generate revenue and fill gaps in the budget through this. Let's think about this for a minute; our taxes pay the people whose jobs are to collect MORE money from us. Some would say that they are simply keeping order, I say wrong.<br/>Click-it or ticket. Fuck you. My mom used to ask me if I brushed my teeth every morning before I left for school. I always did, but that's not the point. If I hadn't, was she going to fine me $50? No. It's my right, my personal choice. Get the idea?<br/>In Europe, they've been around; like Al Pacino in The Scent of A Woman. They build their highways for speed by putting banks on turns, and there is little to no limit on how fast you can go. Drive at your own risk, and don't do anything the car or you can't handle. Speed limits are imposed when highways pass through towns and people are prevalent. In America, we get ticketed for driving 70 in a 55 in cornfield, Illinois. Ever heard of cornfield? Get the idea?<br/>In the great city of Chicago (cough), the streets are cleaned A LOT during the fall, which is a good thing. What's not a good thing? Signs posted on the morning of OF the street cleaning telling people to move their cars, or else they will be ticketed. Good thing the city has admitted to filling a 250 million dollar budget hole by raping their citizens of the ever falling dollar. Instant ticket equals instant revenue. Get the idea?<br/>Let's travel back to cornfield, Illinois. I was pulled over for tinted windows and loud exhaust. No kidding. I was not bothering anybody, driving safely, and obeying the rules of the road (picture Dane Cook saying that last part). I can see that tinted windows may make officers jobs less safe, but since it's only a state law, add it to the pile. <br/>(Conclusion?)<br/>Death and taxes.<br/>They say it's that simple. I wish.<br/>(Needs to be finished)<br/>Religion.<br/>George Bush, the first President Bush, said back in 1988 that atheists can not be patriots. As an atheist, how could I be a patriot after the leader of the “free” world just made a comment like that? It seems the kind of people that have come into power in this country are not only rich, but also stupid. <br/>Truthfully, I don’t feel like a patriot. The definition of a patriot is to “love and defend one’s country”, and I can say that I love my country but I can not defend most of it’s actions with logic. <br/>The not so great greatest generation.<br/>(Needs to be started)<br/>Thoughts which need to be organized:<br/>I do not believe in God. Miracles do not exist. I think that's just stuff we've told ourselves throughout the ages as a way of keeping our minds at peace; a way of not feeling so alone. Nobody wants to think that we're here just because…we're here. Nobody wants to think that they just survived a car accident because of the forces being deflected to the parts of the car designed to take an enormous impact. Nobody wants to think these things, how many of you do? There is no pre-determined path for all of us, how could there be? Why would there be? I prefer to choose where I go and what I do. <br/>Energy is neither created nor destroyed-it's just there, always in a state of transfer, well that’s the theory at least. Does a 'soul' exist? I don't know. Maybe it does, maybe it doesn't. Maybe when you die, maybe your energy-your soul, is just transferred back into the universe.<br/>Is this a terrible way to go about viewing life? No heaven, no fate, no miracles-not believing in these things does not make me a pessimist, or even a bad person. It’s the opposite really; I’m a glass half full of John Daniels type of guy. I still have hope though…I choose to believe in people, no matter how dismal the circumstances. <br/>I have come to severely dislike religion-it is the number two cause of the world’s problems, next to people. I think religion is becoming increasingly hurtful to our species because it is impeding advancement all over the world; not only in a technological way but also in a humanitarian one. Religion is outdated and constantly re-interpreted, think about how many different religions believe that theirs is the right one. Talk about inconsistency. Archimedes was doing calculus thousands of years ago, and it hasn't changed really. Why then, has religion? Because times and people have?<br/>The fact that you have to believe in God to become a President of the United States pisses me off. Whatever happened to separation of church and state? And what about 'one nation, under god'? It didn't bother me when I was a kid (all I was worried about was how to merge the Lego knights set with the Lego space station set), but it does now. I understand that our nation was forged under God- fearing people, but times have changed. I no longer believe that God-fearing men (like George Bush) are the right leaders for this very diverse country. Is any one man or woman the right kind of leader for a country so mixed in beliefs?<br/>Think about how many things would be different in our society if religion were absent. Would there be so much hatred or racism towards other people if there weren’t a reason to hate them purely on what they wore or practiced based on their religious beliefs? Our whole family structure would be different as well. Would there even be 'marriage' in its current form? Is our Americanized version of love and marriage just an outdated Christian ideal? This is from writing by Plato, the Greek philosopher, and it made me think.<br/>“The beloved, when he is found in any disgraceful situation, will be pained at being detected by his lover. If there were only some way of contriving that a state or an army should be made up of lovers and their loves, they would be the very best governors of their own city, abstaining from all dishonor . . . For what lover would not choose rather to be seen by all mankind than by his beloved, either when abandoning his post or throwing away his arms. . . . Or who would desert his beloved or fail him in the hour of danger?'<br/>An army of lovers would conquer all. Male lovers. Completely different from the stuff we’re taught right? Thousands of years ago men fell in love with both men and women, and apparently it was ok. So what does that say about people then, before Christianity, and people now? I guess that's why I think gay marriage is fine. You like who you like, so what? Are we too close-minded now? Have we advanced our lives with technology but gotten stupider as a result?<br/>“I see all this potential, and I see squandering. God damn it, an entire generation pumping gas, waiting tables; slaves with white collars. Advertising has us chasing cars and clothes, working jobs we hate so we can buy shit we don't need. We're the middle children of history, man. No purpose or place. We have no Great War. No Great Depression. Our Great War's a spiritual war... our Great Depression is our lives. We've all been raised on television to believe that one day we'd all be millionaires, and movie gods, and rock stars. But we won't. And we're slowly learning that fact.'<br/>Man, did Fight Club get it right or what?<br/>We go to school or learn a trade to get a job to buy things we don’t need. It’s a never-ending cycle for most of us; we don’t all get to make it big. “What do you want to be when you grow up? I don’t know, but I know that I don’t know. Why do we have to be one thing? I say hang around with enough different kinds of people and you can major in everything. How many times have you said “I think I can see myself doing that for the rest of my life”. I’ve realized you shouldn’t have to ask that question if you are truly passionate. People find many passions in life; some are well paying, some are not. If I never make it BIG most would say that I never followed my dreams or my passions; I don’t believe that though. If I manage to change the world in one way or another, I’ll die a happy man…the George Bailey Syndrome if you will.<br/>I'll be the first to admit that there are some things in this world that just make me giddy which are adding to the demise of our planet - the automobile for instance. I don’t get the warm fuzzies at all automobiles though, just the kind that emanate the greatest of the Michelangelo's through their sheet metal poetry. How could you not drop your draw at creations like the 1969 Yenko Camaro, the 1927 Duesenburg J Type Roadster, and the ever famous 1967 Shelby Mustang GT 500? The answer is…you can't. At least I can't :D I guess that’s why art is so important to us and why it’s often connected with religion; it makes us feel GREAT, like we’re connected to the “heavens”? in some way.<br/>I get all these e-mails about supporting our troops. They say things like: you sleep tight while they sleep in holes in the ground. I don’t think war should be justified ever. To contradict myself, what about America joining WWII? Well, the German’s original actions weren’t justified either, at least not by our beliefs. One bad justification led to another. People: men, women, children, asian, american, african, we’re all different. Why is it so hard for the world to realize that we’re killing ourselves for no good reason…other than that we’re different? How many wars have been based on religion or things relating to it? TOO MANY. I don’t support the “support our troops” propaganda or the imperialistic way we try to shove democracy in other country’s faces. I DO support the men and women who are fighting though, I have friends out there-I support their safe return. <br/>I don't think joining the armed forces is noble-the day I willingly fight in a war is the day our government needs to be overthrown. My guess is, though, one country that hasn’t figured it out yet (has any really?) will justify a terrible action causing others to justify other bad actions-WWIII-so I’ll be fighting sooner rather than later. I have hope though, as I always have, that this will not be the case. <br/>Every moment I spend daydreaming I put the pieces together about what a society should be. A truly modern society. Not a utopian one though, that is impossible (or…implausible?). I can't find the words or images to describe this place adequately yet, hopefully that will come with time.<br/>I live by this quote: “Just get up off the ground, that's all I ask. Get up there with that lady that's up on top of this Capitol dome, that lady that stands for liberty. Take a look at this country through her eyes if you really want to see something. And you won't just see scenery; you'll see the whole parade of what Man's carved out for himself, after centuries of fighting. Fighting for something better than just jungle law, fighting so's he can stand on his own two feet, free and decent, like he was created, no matter what his race, color, or creed. That's what you'd see. There's no place out there for graft, or greed, or lies, or compromise with human liberties. And if that's what the grownups have done with this world that was given to them, then we'd better get those boys' camps started fast and see what the kids can do. And it's not too late, because this country is bigger than you, or me, or anything else. Great principles don't get lost once they come to light. They're right here; you just have to see them again.?<br/>I think the constitution is interpreted too literally. I hear all these people fighting for the literal interpratation of the words written on that paper, and I don't get it. Take a look at 'all men are created equal'. We define that now as men and women of all races...sure as hell wasn't the case back then. I mean the greatest minds of the time came together and drew up a government and put down in words what they thought were fundamental human rights…I'm sure that they knew that over the course of time the language would change and the way the Constitution was interpreted would as well....so why try to follow it literally? Sort of reminds me of the way certain sects of religous groups are too fundamentalist. <br/>I guess what I've been thinking lately is that if we are the amazing species that we claim to be, why is it so hard for us to put aside the different beliefs we have and fight for the things that really matter. How sweet would it be to start fixing the problems we created? I've been kind of inspired lately to treat people better even if they generally are assholes, and even if I'm the only one trying. Lost causes are really the only ones worth fighting for.<br/>Immigration<br/>I was watching Larry King Live and the topic being discussed was the immigration bill and granting amnesty to illegal immigrants based on them following a certain criteria. My personal opinion is that if you came into this country through a hole in the ground, you don't pay taxes, and your children get free education and health care, then you should NOT be granted amnesty. Get the fuck out. I'm all for fucking the government and big business in certain areas, but this is a little different.<br/>In between interviews they showed clips from Mexican protests and I was able to read 2 signs that these kids were made to hold: 'Give me your tired, your poor, your hungry...etc' and 'The USA is made of of immigrants'. I have a big problem with these. Lets start with the latter first. My relatives came in from Italy and Germany through Ellis Island, LEGALLY. It was a pain in the ass, but they did it. to be continued<br/>Now, I don't know a whole lot about the illegal immigrant facts, but what I've heard is this: the U.S. economy loses about $20 million a year in money sent back to Mexico from illegal immigrant workers. I do know about fake social security numbers being used, I've seen it at my workplaces. While watching footage from the Mexican immigrant protests on Larry King Live, there was a little Mexican girl holding a sign that said 'The USA is made up of immigrants!' Well, duh first of all. My family came in through Ellis Island, LEGALLY, no